there was a time when um Adelaide was
not a famous name in the world and then
you know for this strange demi-monde for
this strange subculture of would be
vegan activists on the Internet
the name Adelaide became famous
most of us course have never been there
and most of us had no contact with the
real world of vegan activism that was
unfolding in Adelaide all along despite
the drama on YouTube or often with sort
of no contact no point contact with this
digital vegan denim on now for a couple
of years I have received emails and
messages from people within patreon or
otherwise but I remember when I first
started a patreon I got messages like
this oh you know by conventional email
I've received messages from people in
Adelaide writing to me saying I'm a real
vegan activist in Adelaide we do real
events we do real outreach we do real
political things and real cooking
demonstrations and we hold fundraisers
and durianrider freely have nothing to
do with it these are the from the
perspective of an Internet denizen these
are the two most famous people connected
to Adelaide and they're people who made
the name Adelaide famous but there's
this very different you know there's
this parallel universe the real world of
vegan activism in Adelaide and it's
totally separate from what we imagine
Adelaide to be now you know I mainly
want to wrap this website there's a
beautiful website
I'll give the link below this video for
the vegan festival in Adelaide and you
know if you click on the list of
speakers this is a major event you can
see video from last year's event 2015
but you can see the list of speakers
they have coming up this year for 2016
freely isn't on there during Ryder is
not that they're not invited now I can't
confirm so I shouldn't so people have
written to me saying that that's
intentional that Freelander are excluded
that's what people are written to be
saying people were involved with this
event I obviously those could be fake
emails but I
I tend to assume they're sincere and if
the circumstances you know not only is
it the case that freelee and durianrider
don't have a monopoly on Adelaide but
they seem to be quite alienated from
they seem to be living lives that are
really separate from or even you know an
embarrassment to the real vegan actors
who are organizing events of this kind
if you click on the list of speakers
I'll just say I have been involved in
organizing some real-world events
real-world lectures and what have you in
the past I've never organized an event
on this scale but it's easy for me to
imagine just how much work is involved
in this I had an email from a vegan who
has a background organizing concerts you
know musical events and that guy was
agreeing with something said about how
much work is involved and you know that
the process there's an early
brainstorming stage at which you can
debate things but then later on you
really need people to work as a team
just some of the practical observations
that he would say yeah this is so true
and people who don't have that
experience don't appreciate that this is
an event with live musicians with
cooking demonstrations with speakers I
don't know how many people are gonna
attend but I'll tell you one thing when
I saw this video it had five views on
YouTube so it's a real event it looks
from the photos like in 2015 there did a
couple hundred people attend it looks
like more than 100 people came to this
event in total I don't know maybe I'm
wrong I think this year they have a
longer list because they love more and
their videos they have 17 subscribers on
YouTube and looking at five video four
sorry five viewers for viewers 26
viewers okay so this is big in real life
and tiny on YouTube or as some other
people some other voices for vegan
activism are big on YouTube but are tiny
in real life or doing nothing in real
life so there's something there for all
of us to think about now who is on the
list of speakers a lot of people I've
never heard about and one who had not
only heard about but who I know somebody
who knows and uh
I wonder if he still knows me so there's
some kind of racecar driver
Tyler Tolman is the next guy talking
about heal thyself
David Cole's again I've never heard of
him he has a book titled the insanity of
humanity never heard of them lately l'm
a soul who is some kind of medical
practitioner in Bondi Beach Australia
then here this guy's the big name to me
Jeffrey Masson
Jeffrey Musa MSL so this is somebody I
know I had one very memorable telephone
interview with the man it was definitely
more than an hour I forget if I ran two
hours that was before Skype recorded on
a you know plastic cassette tape that
interview I'm certainly glad that Jeff
Jeff Mason as he used to be known I'm
certainly glad that Jeff has become
vegan Jeff is a former scholar of
Sanskrit I was a former scholar of Palli
Jeff and I both LED interesting chapters
of our lives in Toronto at the
University of Toronto I know things
about this man and boy if you think the
the vegan drama the gossip people engage
it is this guy there's there's a lot to
know about his life and he's written
about it to some extent I think he tries
to be honest in his various
autobiographical eons he's published
more than one autobiography and he's
given autobiographical lectures and
sorry autobiographical interviews quite
a character
and yeah I know I know things about that
man that I'm not gonna say on YouTube so
no James Ashby don't know who this guy
is giving a lecture about peace justice
equality respect various other fitness
gurus no need to go through the whole
list this is this is a long list of
speakers and I'm not even getting to the
list of musicians or other people
attending this so Adelaide in some ways
is nowhere like I said it's not really a
famous place in the world most people I
think most people watch that you never
heard about it before you became vegan
you only heard about it in connection to
veganism well if you look at the
straightaways Wow
there's a real scene of people working
really hard to organize real world
activism everything from the restaurant
to the cooking shows to the Fitness to
the boat there's a real scene there
drawing a robust list of diverse
speakers from around the world and has
nothing to do with freely ordering
writer and it's not promoted by them
it's not supported by them and they're
not speaking there and they're not
participating and you know and at least
in a parallel universe they could be I
mean it's pretty strange that the two
most famous vegans from Adelaide have
nothing to do with the real vegan
festival the real vegan activism that's
going on a delay and that tells you a
lot tells you a lot about I don't know
the rift between fantasy reality but
also if you just click through the link
and look at this website or look at this
YouTube page for some of you at least
some people watching this there will be
a strange contrast ku thinking Adelaide
looks wealthy and safe and happy this
doesn't look like the the crime riddled
hellhole that some people have right
Sparky
the image of Adelaide has been so warped
just you know here on the internet here
in the digital vegan demi-monde um you
know if you look it up there's a
Wikipedia article called crime in
Adelaide into 2013 the city was ranked
the safest in Australia with the lowest
rate of crime per population the idea
that Adelaide is overrun with crime is
nonsense even by Australis Australia
itself is not the most dangerous country
in the world
I'm sorry try living in South Africa try
living in some parts of Russia not all
of Russia's that bad but some parts are
really very dangerous try living in
Brazil or Colombia hey I might as well
shout out Cambodia in this video much
much love to put on pen if you just
glance at the statistics it's obvious
that Adelaide had a bad reputation maybe
in the 1980s and 1990s because of a very
small number of high-profile cases there
were a couple of murders and a couple of
kidnappings the got in the newspapers
and gave the town of bad name but
apparently it was never really
you know a dangerous place in terms of
the rates of poverty and and criminal
behavior and today it just seems to be
totally fictional by any international
standard but even by Australia's own
standards the idea that this is a
poverty-stricken crime ridden tough town
that produced the toughest bike-riding
pekin on YouTube it's just ridiculous
so all these things have been
misrepresented now look the point is
freelee and durianrider they can act
like their own YouTube but they don't
even own YouTube they can act like they
own Adelaide they don't know Adelaide
they don't own veganism or vegan
activism Adelaide and I've got to tell
you they don't own Chiang Mai either
what I have been told and what I believe
to be true is that before they started
their fruit festival in Chiang Mai
Thailand there already was a vegan fruit
festival in Chiang Mai Thailand and it's
still ongoing it's called the Thai
winter fruit festival that predates that
antedates freely enduring right are
getting their idea and jumping on and
what everyone told me was yeah before
freelee and durianrider got they did
they came to the other festival they
attended this other festival they saw
that it worked well and then they
decided to make an invitation to spin
off their own version of it so they did
not even invent the idea of having an
actual festival fruit festival in Chiang
Mai Thailand already was an annual vegan
fruit festival in Chiang Mai Thailand
that was something was already happening
without them so again I do not waste my
time addressing you know the stupidest
of my critics but you guys know some of
my stupider critics have asked me how
dare I even show up in Chiang Mai
Thailand that this is somehow an act of
provocation against people who I have no
right to provoke right you know how dare
I show up in Chiang Mai what I have I've
had reasons to be in Chiang Mai for what
10 years 15 years I've been going to
Chiang Mai for a long long time Chiang
Mai has been a meaningful part of my
life and I've been doing meaningful work
there humanitarian work research work
language work going to you know a co
phone says Xtreme re on whatever they're
going to the university is going to the
museum's and of course doing government
paperwork I have so many reasons to be
in Chiang Mai in the past
in the present in the future Chang has
been a meaningful part of my life long
before freelee and durianrider got
famous in the Internet
I think veganism has been important in
Adelaide before they were there and it's
going to be important after they leave
this is an impressive-looking festival
take a look etc I think many of us you
know obviously some people are gullible
some people become cult-like followers
for a specific you know diet gurus in
the internet but you know for some of us
without even realizing it we can be led
into believing these assumptions just
for example about how important these
people are in their own hometown of
Adelaide or how important these people
are in the city of chiang mai when
they're really not when they're really
considered as political activists their
complete failures if you compare the
level of organization they've done to a
humble owner of a small vegan restaurant
they've accomplished nothing because
there are humble people all around the
world right now who work hard every day
get up and have to clean a grill and
cook pancakes cook vegan pancakes or you
know toss the the salads for the teh
what-have-you you know there are people
making vegan gingerbread men and vegan
muffins and you know iced tea and
mopping the floors and cleaning the
mirror in the bathroom and at night when
all their work is done they're sitting
down and hosting a coffee klatch so a
couple of vegans can get together and
meet and talk to each other after the
vegan restaurant is closed there are
humble people doing that work all over
the world and I would guess they're part
of the backbone of an event like this in
Adelaide being the scale it is and
they're not out here boasting that
they're the most effective activists in
the world and they're not claiming they
own chiang mai and that anyone who sets
foot in chiang mai without their
permission is gonna get beat up well if
i buy an airplane ticket to attend this
is a great event in in adelaide let's do
a fundraiser how many vegans want to go
attend this event in adelaide that has
nothing to do with freely ordering water
so what are you gonna beat me up are you
gonna threaten me to throw me in prison
defame me threaten me with violence
threaten me that a gang of thugs gonna
be in the street if I go to this vegan
event in Adelaide
you don't own chiang mai you don't own a
delay
and you haven't even earned the respect
of these vegan activists who have put in
the hard work of the time and effort to
make something really positive happen
for the future of veganism in your
hometown and you know it's not too late
to make slim paws happen any of you guys
watching this or connect to a delay but
including you know durianrider freely if
you see this video you can at least show
these guys some respect you can at least
show these guys some Thanks some
gratitude you know you can say hey these
people in Adelaide are making something
happen that you never managed to make
happen they're doing it without you so
the least you can do is show them your
gratitude show them your thanks show
them your support what up shout out to
all the real vegans in Adelaide and you
know not every real vegan could be a
vegan activist some vegans gotta raise
kids some vegans got to work two jobs
some vegans are in the Navy and a
submarine vegans are dealing with all
kinds of things in life but yo anyone
out there I mean if you're keepin it
real I got love for you I got respect
for you I want to see this world change
in the next thirty years and this is the
future this is how it's gonna change I
know what may not look like much getting
some speakers and musicians and cooks
out on a lawn and having a festival but
god damn it it's something and I respect
the hell out of it I respect the hell
out of everyone who's making that effort
to make something positive happen